# NS_Group_Project

The present study explores the relationships between recipes and ingredients
using a large dataset from Food.com, leveraging network science to analyse the
interconnected nature of culinary practices with cultural, social, and histori-
cal influences. By constructing recipe-ingredient and ingredient co-occurrence
graphs, we uncover patterns of ingredient pairing, cuisine-specific communities,
and influential ”bridge” ingredients that connect diverse culinary traditions.

# About files and code

## Notebooks

- *graph_creation.ipynb* - Contains the code for generating the 3 Recipe-Ingredient Graphs with tresholds 3, 5, 6 for connecting the nodes.
- *ingredients_graph_generation.ipynb* - Contains the code for generating the weighted Ingredient co-occurence graph.
- *executed_tasks.ipynb* - Contains the code for substituting certain ingredients with an LLM to avoid typos and to make sure that each ingredient is present only once and with the same name.
- *ingredients_analysis.ipynb* - Contains the code for analysing the weighted Ingredient co-occurence graph.
- *recipe_analysis.ipynb* - Contains the code for analysing a recipe graph, recipe_analysis_3_common.ipynb, recipe_analysis_5_common.ipynb, and recipe_analysis_6_common.ipynb are copies of this ran on the corresponding graphs. We tought it will be easier to compare the results on the graphs with different tresholds if we create separate notebooks for each of them.
- *recipe_analysis_3_common.ipynb* - Contains the code for analysing recipe graph with nodes connected if they have at least 3 common ingredients
- *recipe_analysis_5_common.ipynb* - Contains the code for analysing recipe graph with nodes connected if they have at least 5 common ingredients
- *recipe_analysis_6_common.ipynb* - Contains the code for analysing recipe graph with nodes connected if they have at least 6 common ingredients
- *attacks.ipynb* - We ended up not using it for our analysis, but it contains code for attacking the ingredient network

## Graphs

- *graphs/ingredients_weighted_graph.gml* - The weighted graph for ingredient co-occurence, generated by ingredients_graph_generation.ipynb
- *final_recipe_graph_min_common_3.gml* - The graph where nodes are recipes, and they are connected if they have at least 3 common ingredients, generated by recipe_analysis_3_common.ipynb.
- *final_recipe_graph_min_common_5.gml* - The graph where nodes are recipes, and they are connected if they have at least 5 common ingredients, generated by recipe_analysis_5_common.ipynb.
- *final_recipe_graph_min_common_6.gml* - The graph where nodes are recipes, and they are connected if they have at least 6 common ingredients, generated by recipe_analysis_6_common.ipynb.

## Other files

- *ingredients.xlsx* - Contains the mapping of the ingredients generated by the LLM during preprocessing
- *unique_ingredients.txt* - contains the original ingredients before the mapping.
